Pattern used in Ferguson:
    from external channel -> put message in REST API , 
    API will save the collection as received collection (rcvd) and publish message in metdata format (id and eventdata) to topic ,
    topic will be subscribed by multiple queue. 
    writer service will subscribe the message from corresponding queue and fetch the data from received collection based on metadata
    and  write the message in collection data model (CDM) . 
    update , add , delete will be determined as type in message which is published to topic ,
    sync id will be there , if its latest than existing then update the data .
    if any failure occurs goes for retry .If successful save in CDM collections .
    And there is a redeliver rest service ,  In redeliver it will try to put again on queue similar to publisher based on Id and data range. 
    if again fails moves to DLQ. 

1. The Ingestion Flow:
External Channel → REST API: 
      The raw payload is persisted immediately into a Received Collection. 
      This acts as your "Source of Truth" or an audit log of exactly what was sent.
Metadata Publisher: The API publishes a slim message to a Topic.
      Payload: { "id": "123", "eventData": "...", "type": "UPDATE/ADD/DELETE", "syncId": 20260331 }
Fan-out: The Topic pushes this metadata to multiple Subscriber Queues.
2. The Writer Service Logic:
The Writer Service is the "brain" of the operation. It performs the following steps:
Hydration: It receives the metadata, then fetches the full document from the Received Collection using the id.
Idempotency & Versioning: It compares the syncId from the message against the syncId already in the CDM.
          If $syncId_{new} > syncId_{existing}$, the operation proceeds
          If it's older, the message is discarded to prevent "stale" data from overwriting newer updates (a common issue in asynchronous systems).
Transformation: It maps the raw data into the CDM schema based on the type (Add, Update, or Delete).
     When performing a DELETE based on a syncId, consider using Soft Deletes (a deleted: true flag). 
3. Error Handling & Redelivery
Scenario             Action
First Failure        The message enters a Retry Loop (exponential backoff is usually best here).
Exhausted Retries    The message is sent to a Dead Letter Queue (DLQ) or flagged for the Redeliver Service.
Redeliver Service    A manual or scheduled REST trigger that fetches original data by ID or Date Range and re-injects it into the flow.

Yes, it ensures Eventual Consistency.
Safety: No matter what order messages arrive in (Update 2 before Update 1), 
        the database will always end up with the state of the message that has the highest timestamp.
Liveness: Your Redeliver Service can safely re-send old data from the "Received Collection" without fear of corrupting the CDM,
          because the long timestamp check will automatically ignore the re-delivered "old" data if the CDM is already more current.
Verdict: A long timestamp is excellent for 95% of use cases. 
        As long as you generate the timestamp at the entry point and use a "Strictly Greater Than" check in your Writer, your data consistency will be solid.


Web Adapter Pattern:
    In a Hexagonal Architecture (also known as Ports and Adapters), a Web Adapter is the entry point for your application. 
    It sits in the outermost layer and is responsible for translating HTTP requests into a format the core business logic (the "Inside") can understand.

    It essentially bridges the gap between the Web (REST, JSON, Cookies) and your Use Cases (Java Objects, Commands).

1. The Role of a Web Adapter
        A Web Adapter shouldn't contain any business logic. Its responsibilities are strictly technical:
            Mapping: Convert JSON/HTTP parameters into a "Command" or "Query" object.
            Validation: Check for basic input errors (e.g., "Email format is invalid" or "Field is missing").
            Routing: Map a specific URL and HTTP Method (GET, POST) to a specific business function.
            Response Formatting: Convert the result from the business layer back into JSON and the correct HTTP Status Code (200 OK, 201 Created, etc.).

2. Anatomy of a Web Adapter (Spring Boot)
        In Spring, your @RestController classes serve as the Web Adapters. 
        They "plug into" a Port (an interface defined in the domain layer).
            @RestController
            @RequiredArgsConstructor // Generates constructor for the final Port
            public class RegisterUserWebAdapter {
                // This is the "Inbound Port" (an Interface in your Domain layer)
                private final RegisterUserUseCase registerUserUseCase;
                @PostMapping("/v1/users")
                public ResponseEntity<UserResponse> register(@RequestBody RegisterUserRequest request) {
                    // 1. Map Web Request to a Domain Command
                    RegisterUserCommand command = new RegisterUserCommand(
                        request.getEmail(),
                        request.getPassword()
                    );
                    // 2. Call the Use Case (The "Inside" of the Hexagon)
                    User user = registerUserUseCase.register(command);
                    // 3. Map Domain Result back to a Web Response
                    return ResponseEntity.status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
                                         .body(new UserResponse(user.getId()));
                }
            }
3. Why Use This Pattern?
        If you put all your code in a Controller, your business logic becomes "married" to the Web framework.
        If you ever wanted to move from REST to a Message Queue (Kafka) or a CLI tool, you'd have to rewrite everything.
        With a Web Adapter:
            Framework Independence: Your business logic doesn't know it's being called by Spring MVC.
            Testability: You can unit test your logic without mocking complex HttpServletRequest objects.
            Clean Separation: The Web Adapter cares about HTTP codes; the Service cares about Business Rules.

Feature        Web Adapter (@RestController)        Service Layer (@Service)
Input          HTTP Request (JSON)                   Domain Objects / Commands
Logic          Formatting & Validation               Business Rules & Transactions
Output         "HTTP Response (200, 404, etc.)"      Domain Model / Entity
Dependencies   "Depends on ""Inbound Ports"""        "Depends on ""Outbound Ports"" (DB)"


Loading a cache in a multi-node environment:
    In a distributed system, It  is tricky because you have to balance data consistency (making sure all nodes see the same thing)
    with availability (making sure the cache is fast).
    Here are the four most common strategies used in modern architecture:
    1. Distributed Cache (Centralized)
        Instead of each node having its own "island" of memory, all nodes connect to a single, external cache cluster (like Redis or Memcached).
            How it works: Nodes act as clients. If Node A updates a value, Node B sees it immediately because they share the same source of truth.
            Pros: High consistency; no memory wasted on duplicate data.
            Cons: Network overhead (every cache hit requires a network call).
    2. Near-Cache (Hybrid)
        This is a "best of both worlds" approach. You have a Centralized Cache, but each node also keeps a small, local "hot" cache in its own memory.
            How it works: When a node asks for data, it checks its local memory first. If missing, it goes to Redis.
            Consistency: Usually handled via Pub/Sub. When Redis is updated, 
                        it sends an "invalidation" message to all nodes to clear their local copies of that specific key.
            Pros: Extreme speed for very frequently accessed data.
    3. Replicated Cache
        Every node maintains a full copy of the entire cache.
            How it works: When Node A writes to its cache, the change is synchronously or asynchronously broadcast to every other node in the cluster.
            Pros: Zero network latency for reads (everything is local).
            Cons: Very expensive in terms of memory; write performance drops as you add more nodes (the "broadcast storm").
    4. Cache Loading Patterns
        Regardless of where the cache lives, you need a strategy for how the data gets in there:
            A. Cache-Aside (Lazy Loading)
                The application code is responsible for the cache.
                Check cache.
                If Miss: Read from DB, write to cache, return to user.
                Best for: General purpose workloads where the cache shouldn't be "stale."
            B. Read-Through / Write-Through
                The application treats the cache as the main data store. The cache itself is responsible for talking to the database.
                Best for: Keeping code clean; the "loading" logic is moved to the cache provider.
            C. Refresh-Ahead (Proactive)
                The cache automatically reloads data before it expires based on usage patterns.
                Best for: Highly predictable data that must never have a "cold" start.

 If one node update data how other node take that from cache:
    This is the classic Cache Inconsistency problem.
    If Node A updates the database and its own cache, Node B is left holding "stale" (old) data.
    
    To make sure Node B takes the updated data, you generally use one of the following three patterns.
    1. The Invalidation Pattern (Pub/Sub):
        This is the most common "Notification" strategy. 
        Instead of Node A trying to update Node B's memory directly, it sends a shout-out.
        How it works: You use a Message Broker (like Redis Pub/Sub, RabbitMQ, or Kafka).
        The Flow:
                Node A updates the Database.
                Node A publishes a message to a "cache-clear" topic: "User 101 has changed!"
                Node B (and all other nodes) is listening to that topic.
                When Node B hears the message, it deletes "User 101" from its local cache.
                The next time a user asks Node B for User 101, it sees the cache is empty and fetches the fresh data from the Database.
    
    2. The Distributed Cache (Single Source of Truth)
        If you move the cache outside of the nodes, the problem disappears entirely.
        How it works: Use a central Redis or Hazelcast cluster.
        The Flow:
                Node A updates the Database.
                Node A updates the entry in Redis.
                When Node B looks for that data, it looks in Redis.
                Result: Node B automatically sees the change Node A made because they are looking at the exact same memory space.
    
    3. Time-to-Live (TTL) - The "Lazy" Way
        If your data doesn't need to be 100% accurate every second, you can use Expiration.
        How it works: Every item put in the cache is given an "expiry date" (e.g., 60 seconds).
        The Flow:
                Node A updates the Database.
                Node B continues to serve the old data.
                After 60 seconds, Node B's cache entry expires and disappears.
                Node B is forced to go to the Database and gets the new value.
                Note: This is only used for non-critical data (like a "Top 10 Trending Topics" list).

Session strategy:
  In a modern distributed system (like Microservices or a multi-node cluster), managing user sessions is a critical architectural decision. 
  Since HTTP is stateless, the server needs a way to remember who the user is between requests.

  Here are the four primary session management strategies used today:
    1. Sticky Sessions (Session Affordance)
        The Load Balancer ensures that a specific user is always routed to the same server node for the duration of their session.
        How it works: The Load Balancer looks at a cookie or IP and "sticks" the user to Node A.
                     Node A stores the session in its local RAM.
        Pros: Very fast (no network calls to a database).
        Cons: Low Reliability. If Node A crashes, all users "stuck" to it lose their session data and must log in again. 
             It also makes load balancing uneven. 
    2. Session Replication
        Every node in the cluster shares session data with every other node.
        How it works: When Node A creates a session, it broadcasts that data to Node B, C, and D.
        Pros: High availability. If any node fails, any other node can pick up the request.
        Cons: Poor Scalability. As you add more nodes, the "noise" of broadcasting session updates creates massive network overhead.
    
    3. Centralized Session Store (Distributed Session)
        This is the industry standard for scalable production apps. 
        Session data is moved out of the application nodes and into a fast, external "Data Store."
        How it works: All nodes connect to a central, high-speed NoSQL database (usually Redis or Memcached).
        The Flow:
                User logs in via Node A.
                Node A saves session in Redis.
                User's next request hits Node B.
                Node B asks Redis: "Is this session valid?"
                Redis says "Yes," and Node B processes the request.
        Pros: Nodes are truly stateless. You can kill or add nodes without affecting users.
        
    4. Stateless Sessions (JWT / Token-Based)
    The server stores nothing. Instead, the session state is encrypted and sent to the client (browser).
        How it works: After login, the server sends a JSON Web Token (JWT) to the user. 
                     The user sends this token back in the header of every request.
        Pros: Maximum scalability. No database lookups needed at all.
        Cons: Security/Revocation. It is very difficult to "Log out" a user before the token expires because the server has no central record to delete.
    
    Strategy Comparison Table
    Strategy	    Storage Location	Scalability	    Reliability	    Complexity
    Sticky        	Local RAM	        Low	            Low	            Easy
    Replicated	    All Nodes	        Very Low	    High	        Medium
    Centralized	    Redis/External	    High	        High	        Medium
    Stateless	    Client (JWT)	    Extreme	        High            High (Security)

Which one should you use?
    For Monoliths: Sticky sessions are often fine for simple internal tools.
    For Enterprise/Spring Boot: Centralized Store (Redis) is the sweet spot. 
        It provides the best balance of speed and reliability.
    For Public APIs: Stateless (JWT) is preferred because it allows different services to verify users without sharing a database.

Deployment rollback Strategy:
    A Deployment Rollback Strategy is the plan for how you revert your production environment to a previous stable state
    when a new release fails health checks, shows bugs, or degrades performance.
    In modern DevOps, "rolling back" isn't just about clicking an undo button; 
    it’s about how you manage traffic and infrastructure to minimize the "blast radius" of a failure.

1. Blue-Green Deployment (The "Mirror" Strategy)
    This is the cleanest and fastest rollback method. 
    You maintain two identical production environments.
        How it works: "Blue" is the current live version. You deploy the new code to "Green." 
                     Once Green is ready, you flip the Load Balancer or Route 53 settings to point to Green.
        The Rollback: If Green starts throwing errors, you simply flip the switch back to Blue.
        Benefit: Immediate recovery.
        Risk: Costly, as you need double the infrastructure.
2. Canary Deployment (The "Testing in Production" Strategy)
    Instead of switching everyone at once, you roll out the new version to a small subset of users (e.g., 5%).
        How it works: You monitor the 5% for "Golden Signals" (Latency, Errors, Traffic, Saturation). 
                     If they look good, you increase to 25%, 50%, then 100%.
        The Rollback: If the 5% experience issues, you simply kill the canary instances. 
                    The other 95% of users were never affected.
        Benefit: Extremely low blast radius.
3. Rolling Updates (The "One-by-One" Strategy)
    Common in Kubernetes, this replaces old instances with new ones gradually.
        How it works: If you have 10 servers, the system kills 1 old server and starts 1 new one until the transition is complete.
        The Rollback: If the new servers fail health checks,
                     the orchestrator stops the update and begins a "Reverse Rolling Update" to bring back the old versions.
        Risk: During the update, your users are hitting two different versions of the app simultaneously.
4. Feature Toggles (The "Logic" Rollback)
    Sometimes the deployment itself is fine, but a specific feature is broken.
        How it works: You wrap new code in an if statement controlled by a remote configuration tool (like LaunchDarkly or a custom DB flag).
        The Rollback: You don't redeploy code. You just toggle the flag to OFF in a dashboard.
                     The code stays in production but is "hidden" from the execution path.
        Benefit: Zero-second "rollback" without a deployment pipeline.

Summary Comparison:
Strategy        Speed of Rollback    Infrastructure Cost    Risk Level
Blue-Green          Instant                 High                Low
Canary              Fast                    Medium            Very Low
Rolling Update      Moderate                Low               Medium
Feature Toggle      Instant                 Low             Low (Logic based)


Different db on same application:
    Using multiple databases in a single Spring Boot application is a common requirement, 
    especially when you are following the CQRS pattern (e.g., using MySQL for writes and MongoDB for reads) or integrating legacy systems with new ones.

    In Spring Boot, the "Auto-configuration" magic usually handles one database perfectly.
    To use two or more, you have to manually define the configuration for each.
1. The Strategy: Manual Configuration
    When you have multiple databases, you must disable the default auto-configuration for data sources and explicitly define:
        DataSource: The connection details for each DB.
        EntityManagerFactory: To manage the entities for that specific DB.
        TransactionManager: To handle commits/rollbacks for that specific DB.
2. Configuration Steps (Step-by-Step)
    A. Define Properties
        In your application.properties, use unique prefixes for each database.
        Properties
        # Primary Database (MySQL)
        spring.datasource.primary.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/db1
        spring.datasource.primary.username=root
        spring.datasource.primary.password=pass
        # Secondary Database (PostgreSQL)
        spring.datasource.secondary.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/db2
        spring.datasource.secondary.username=user
        spring.datasource.secondary.password=pass
B. Create Configuration Classes
    You need one @Configuration class for each database. 
    You must mark one as @Primary so Spring knows which one to use by default if no specific name is provided.
        Primary Configuration:
        @Configuration
        @EnableJpaRepositories(
            basePackages = "com.app.repository.primary", // Scans only these repos
            entityManagerFactoryRef = "primaryEntityManagerFactory",
            transactionManagerRef = "primaryTransactionManager"
        )
        public class PrimaryDbConfig {
            @Primary
            @Bean
            @ConfigurationProperties("spring.datasource.primary")
            public DataSource primaryDataSource() {
                return DataSourceBuilder.create().build();
            }
            // ... define EntityManagerFactory and TransactionManager beans here
        }
3. Common Use Case Scenarios
Scenario                    Strategy
SQL + NoSQL                "Easiest: Spring Data JPA handles the SQL, and Spring Data MongoDB handles the NoSQL. 
                            They naturally use different repositories and configurations."
Two Different SQL DBs       "Medium: Requires the manual configuration shown above. 
                            You must separate your Repository interfaces into different packages (e.g., repo.mysql and repo.postgres)."
Distributed Transactions    Hard: If you save to DB1 and DB2 in the same method, a failure in DB2 won't automatically roll back DB1. 
                            You need JTA (Java Transaction API) or the Saga Pattern."
