Pattern used in Ferguson:
    from external channel -> put message in REST API , 
    API will save the collection as received collection (rcvd) and publish message in metdata format (id and eventdata) to topic ,
    topic will be subscribed by multiple queue. 
    writer service will subscribe the message from corresponding queue and fetch the data from received collection based on metadata
    and  write the message in collection data model (CDM) . 
    update , add , delete will be determined as type in message which is published to topic ,
    sync id will be there , if its latest than existing then update the data .
    if any failure occurs goes for retry .If successful save in CDM collections .
    And there is a redeliver rest service ,  In redeliver it will try to put again on queue similar to publisher based on Id and data range. 
    if again fails moves to DLQ. 

1. The Ingestion Flow:
External Channel → REST API: 
      The raw payload is persisted immediately into a Received Collection. 
      This acts as your "Source of Truth" or an audit log of exactly what was sent.
Metadata Publisher: The API publishes a slim message to a Topic.
      Payload: { "id": "123", "eventData": "...", "type": "UPDATE/ADD/DELETE", "syncId": 20260331 }
Fan-out: The Topic pushes this metadata to multiple Subscriber Queues.
2. The Writer Service Logic:
The Writer Service is the "brain" of the operation. It performs the following steps:
Hydration: It receives the metadata, then fetches the full document from the Received Collection using the id.
Idempotency & Versioning: It compares the syncId from the message against the syncId already in the CDM.
          If $syncId_{new} > syncId_{existing}$, the operation proceeds
          If it's older, the message is discarded to prevent "stale" data from overwriting newer updates (a common issue in asynchronous systems).
Transformation: It maps the raw data into the CDM schema based on the type (Add, Update, or Delete).
     When performing a DELETE based on a syncId, consider using Soft Deletes (a deleted: true flag). 
3. Error Handling & Redelivery
Scenario             Action
First Failure        The message enters a Retry Loop (exponential backoff is usually best here).
Exhausted Retries    The message is sent to a Dead Letter Queue (DLQ) or flagged for the Redeliver Service.
Redeliver Service    A manual or scheduled REST trigger that fetches original data by ID or Date Range and re-injects it into the flow.

Yes, it ensures Eventual Consistency.
Safety: No matter what order messages arrive in (Update 2 before Update 1), 
        the database will always end up with the state of the message that has the highest timestamp.
Liveness: Your Redeliver Service can safely re-send old data from the "Received Collection" without fear of corrupting the CDM,
          because the long timestamp check will automatically ignore the re-delivered "old" data if the CDM is already more current.
Verdict: A long timestamp is excellent for 95% of use cases. 
        As long as you generate the timestamp at the entry point and use a "Strictly Greater Than" check in your Writer, your data consistency will be solid.
