Since you are using Ansible to configure properties, the microservice is likely running as a Docker container or a systemd service.
1. Check Running Containers: If it’s a containerized app, use: docker ps
  Look for the image name from your ACR and check the "STATUS" column (it should say Up X minutes).
2. Check Service Status: If Ansible installs it as a native Linux service: systemctl status <service-name>
3. Verify Logs: To see if the app started correctly without internal errors: docker logs -f <container_id>  (for Docker)
4. Network Check: Verify the service is listening on the expected port: netstat -tuln | grep <port_number>

Azure Container Registry (ACR):
  Navigate to your ACR resource ->  Under Services -> click Repositories.
  Find your service name and click it to see the Tags. Verify that a new tag (usually the Jenkins build number or a timestamp) was pushed recently.

Virtual Machine / App Service: (extra)
  If you are deploying to an Azure VM, check the Networking tab to ensure the ports defined in your Ansible YAML are open in the Network Security Group (NSG).
  Check Insights/Metrics to see CPU and memory heartbeats, which indicate the service is actually doing work.

Core Components of  Pipeline:
1. Git Repo - Holds the Source Code and the Ansible Playbooks.
2. Jenkins - 	The Orchestrator. It triggers the build, runs Docker commands to build the image, and executes the Ansible task.
3. Ansible	- The Configuration Manager. It ensures the Linux server has the right environment variables, secrets, and pulls the correct image version from ACR.
4. ACR	- The private storage for your Docker images. Jenkins pushes here; the Server pulls from here.
5. Linux Server	- The Host. The final destination where the code actually executes.

To verify : curl -I http://localhost:<port>/health

1. The Authentication Command: az acr login --name feidtifacr001 --subscription <sub-id>
    What it does: Authenticates your local Docker/Podman daemon with your private Azure Container Registry (ACR).
    Why it's helpful: Without this, your local machine won't have the "keys" to pull the microservice images stored in Azure. 
                      It ensures that when Ansible tries to deploy the app, it doesn't get an "Access Denied" error from the registry.

2. The Deployment Playbooks: The ansible-playbook commands are the "brains" of the operation.
                            Ansible uses these YAML files to ensure your local environment matches the required state.
A. Project Setup & Deployment: ansible-playbook -i ... test-setup.yml deploy-from-project.yml -e project_dir=/app/dev/<your project>
    test-setup.yml: Likely prepares the infrastructure (creates namespaces, sets up storage, or verifies dependencies).
    deploy-from-project.yml: This is the main action. It pulls the code/image from the directory you specified (-e project_dir) and pushes it to your target environment.  
        -e (Extra Vars): This allows you to tell Ansible exactly which microservice project you want to work on without changing the code of the playbook.
B. Environment Configuration: ansible-playbook -i ... dev-sandbox.yml and k8-vdi-env.yml
dev-sandbox.yml: Sets up a "Sandbox" (a safe, isolated area) on your Linux machine or AKS cluster so you can test changes without breaking the main development branch.
    k8-vdi-env.yml: Configures the specific Kubernetes environment for a VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) setup.
                It likely handles the networking and permissions needed for your local Linux machine to talk to the Kubernetes API.

How this helps your local setup:
Consistency: By using these commands, you ensure your local Linux machine is configured exactly like the production server.
Speed: Instead of manually setting up database connections or environment properties, Ansible does it in seconds.
Isolation: The "sandbox" playbooks allow you to break things locally while you experiment with the Ansible YAML properties without affecting other developers.

To verify these in the Azure Portal, follow these steps:
1. Check Exposed Endpoints (Services & Ingress): This is where you find the External IP or DNS name for your microservice.
    Navigate to: Azure Portal > Kubernetes services > Select your Cluster.
    Go to: Under the Kubernetes resources section on the left, click Services and ingresses.
    What to look for:
    Services tab: Look for your service name. 
                  If the type is LoadBalancer, you will see an External IP listed. 
                  This is the public entry point. 
    Ingresses tab: If you are using an Ingress Controller (like Nginx), look here for the Host or Address. 
                   This usually maps multiple microservices to one IP via different paths (e.g., /api/user, /api/order).
2. Check the "Workloads" (Is the code actually running?): Even if an IP is exposed, the service won't work if the container failed to start.
      Navigate to: Cluster > Kubernetes resources > Workloads.
      Check Status: Look at the Deployments or Pods tab.
                    You want to see a green checkmark or Ready: 1/1.
                    If it says ImagePullBackOff, it means AKS couldn't talk to your ACR (check your az acr login permissions).
                    If it says CrashLoopBackOff, the code is failing internally (check Live Logs in the portal).
3. Verify the Container Image in ACR: To ensure Jenkins actually pushed the latest version:
      Navigate to: Azure Portal > Container registries > Select feidtifacr001.
      Go to: Under Services, click Repositories.
      Action: Find your specific microservice repository. Click on it to see the Tags. 
              The top tag should match the timestamp or build ID from your recent Jenkins/Ansible run.

Get Public URL/IP -> AKS > Services and ingresses -> External IP / Frontend IP
Check App Health  -> AKS > Workloads > Pods       -> Status (Running) & Live Logs
Verify Image Push -> ACR > Repositories            -> Tag (Timestamp/Build ID)
Check Config/Secrets  -> AKS > Configuration        -> ConfigMaps / Secrets

1. The Cluster:
          The Cluster is the entire "Gated Community." It is a group of virtual machines (Nodes) working together, managed by Azure.  
          In your case: This is the resource you see in the Azure Portal that contains all your dev/sandbox environments.
2. The Node:
          A Node is a single "Apartment Building" (a Virtual Machine) within the cluster.
          In your case: When you run ansible-playbook -i ... vdi, your inventory is likely pointing to these nodes. 
                        They provide the CPU and RAM that actually run your microservice.
3. The Pod:
          A Pod is the "Individual Apartment." It is the smallest unit in Kubernetes. 
          It wraps your Docker container (the image from your ACR) and gives it an internal IP address.
          In your case: If your microservice crashes, the Pod is what gets restarted. 
                        You check Pod status in the Workloads section of the Azure Portal.
4. The Deployment:
          A Deployment is the "Building Blueprint" or the "Property Manager." 
          It defines how many copies (replicas) of a Pod should be running and which version of the image from feidtifacr001 should be used.
          In your case: Your deploy-from-project.yml Ansible playbook likely creates or updates this Deployment. 
                        If you want to scale your service from 1 instance to 3, you update the Deployment.
5. The Service:
          A Service is the "Front Gate/Intercom."
          Since Pods are constantly being destroyed and recreated (getting new internal IPs), the Service provides a permanent IP address or DNS name so other apps can find your microservice.
          In your case: This is what "exposes" your app. When you looked at Services and ingresses in the portal, you were looking at this layer to find the External IP.

How they connect to your Ansible commands:
      Your Ansible Playbook tells the Cluster to create a Deployment.
      That Deployment pulls an image from ACR and puts it into a Pod.
      The Pod runs on a Node.
      A Service is created so you can access that Pod from your browser or another microservice.

how blob storage connected from java to azure services :
In your architecture, the connection between a Java microservice and 
Azure Blob Storage is typically handled through Environment Variables or Managed Identities, orchestrated by your Ansible playbooks.

1. How the Connection is Established (The Workflow)
    Since you are using Ansible and Jenkins, the connection usually follows one of these two paths:
    A. The "Modern" Way: Workload Identity (Passwordless)
        This is the most secure method. Instead of a password, your Java app uses an Azure Managed Identity.
        Azure Side: You create a Managed Identity and give it the Storage Blob Data Contributor role.
        Kubernetes Side: A "Service Account" in AKS is linked to that Identity. 
        Java Side: You use the Azure Identity SDK in your code: 
        Java
        // It automatically looks for the identity assigned to the Pod
        BlobServiceClient blobServiceClient = new BlobServiceClientBuilder()
            .credential(new DefaultAzureCredentialBuilder().build())
            .endpoint("https://<your-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net")
            .buildClient();
    B. The "Standard" Way: Connection Strings - in export file case similary 
        Ansible/Jenkins: Your Jenkins pipeline or Ansible YAML file stores the Storage Account Key as a "Secret."
        Deployment: Ansible injects this secret into your Kubernetes Pod as an environment variable (e.g., AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING). 
        Java Side: Your app reads this variable to connect.

2. Where to Check in Azure Portal
    To verify if the connection is configured correctly, check these three specific places:
    I. Service Connector (Easiest Check) - No acess for me 
        The Azure Portal has a tool specifically for this.
        Go to: Your AKS Cluster > Settings (left menu) > Service Connector.
        What to look for: You should see a connection listed for "Storage - Blob."
        Validation: Click on the connection and select Validate. It will run a "health check" to see if the network and permissions between the Cluster and Storage are actually working.   
    II. Access Control (IAM) on the Storage Account
        If using Managed Identity, you must ensure the app has permission.
        Go to: Your Storage Account > Access Control (IAM) > Role Assignments.
        Check: Ensure your Managed Identity (or the identity of the AKS cluster) has the Storage Blob Data Contributor role.
               Without this, you will get a "403 Forbidden" error even if the code is perfect.
    III. Storage Browser (Verify the Data)
        Go to: Your Storage Account > Storage browser > Blob containers.
        Check: Use this to manually see if the files your Java app is supposed to upload/download are actually appearing in the container.

pom.xml -> Includes azure-storage-blob and azure-identity dependencies.
Ansible YAML -> Configures the ConfigMap or Secret that holds the Storage Account name/URL.
Managed Identity -> The "Digital ID Card" that lets your Java app bypass passwords.
Private Endpoint(Optional)->  Ensures the data stays on the private Azure network and doesn't go over the public internet.

How to Verify on the Linux Server (CLI)
    If you want to check the connection from your terminal:
            Check the Pod's Environment: kubectl exec <pod-name> -- env | grep STORAGE
            (This verifies if Ansible successfully passed the configuration to the container.)
    Check App Logs: kubectl logs <pod-name>
    Look for AuthenticationFailed or StorageException. If you see these, it usually means the IAM role in Step II is missing.


how to connect azure services bus similary and how to verify:
    Connecting a Java microservice to Azure Service Bus is very similar to connecting to Blob Storage,
    but instead of files, you are dealing with Messages (Queues and Topics).
1. Connection Methods (How it's connected)
    A. The "Passwordless" Way (Recommended)
        Your Java app uses Workload Identity.
        The Setup: Your pod is assigned a "Managed Identity." In the Azure Portal, you give this identity the Azure Service Bus Data Receiver or Sender role.
        The Java Code: You use the DefaultAzureCredential from the Azure Identity SDK. It automatically "finds" the identity in your AKS pod.   
    B. The Connection String Way
        The Setup: You grab the "Primary Connection String" from the Service Bus Shared Access Policies (SAS).
        The Injection: Your Ansible playbook (deploy-from-project.yml) injects this string as an environment variable into your Kubernetes deployment.
        The Java Config (application.yml):
        YAML
        spring:
          cloud:
            azure:
              servicebus:
                connection-string: ${SERVICEBUS_CONNECTION_STRING}
                entity-name: my-queue-name
2. How to Verify in the Azure Portal
      To confirm the connection is active and messages are flowing:
      Check the "Service Connector":  
                  Go to your AKS Cluster > Service Connector. 
                  If Ansible/Terraform set it up, you can click Validate here.
                  It tests the network path and permissions in one click.
      Check the "Service Bus Explorer":
                 Go to your Service Bus Namespace > Queues > Select your queue.
                 Click Service Bus Explorer on the left.
                 Click Peek from start. If you see messages sitting there, it means your "Producer" service successfully sent them.
                 If the queue is always at 0, but your app says it's sending, check the Dead-letter queue tab—this is where "failed" messages go.                                
      Check Metrics:
                On the Service Bus Overview page, look at the Requests and Messages charts.
                A spike in "Incoming Messages" confirms your app is talking to Azure.
3. How to Verify on the Linux/AKS Side
      If the portal looks fine but the app isn't working, check the "plumbing" from your terminal:
      Check for the Secret:
              If you used Ansible to create a Kubernetes secret:
              kubectl get secret sbsecret -o yaml
              (Verify the connection string is actually there and base64 encoded correctly.)
      Check App Logs:
            kubectl logs <pod-name> -f
            Success: Completed connection to Service Bus namespace...
            Failure: UnauthorizedAccess (Role/Permission issue) or ServiceBusException (Network/Wrong Name issue).          
      Test the Network Port:
            Service Bus uses AMQP (Port 5671/5672) or WebSockets (Port 443). Run this from your server to see if Azure is reachable:
            telnet <your-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net 5671

      Service Bus ->  Namespace	The container for all your queues/topics.
      Shared Access Policy	-> The "Key" (if not using Managed Identity).
      @ServiceBusListener	-> The Java annotation that tells your app to "listen" for new messages.
      RBAC Roles -> 	Data Sender (for sending) and Data Receiver (for reading).

What is ServiceBusClientBuilder?
  Instead of manually handling low-level networking (AMQP), you use this builder to configure:
  The Endpoint: Where your Service Bus lives (the namespace URL).
  The Credentials: How you prove who you are (Connection String vs. Managed Identity).
  The Client Type: Whether you want to send, receive, or "peek" at messages.

How to achieve Managed Identity:
  To use Managed Identity, you combine ServiceBusClientBuilder with the DefaultAzureCredential class.
  This tells Java: "Don't look for a password; look for the 'ID Card' assigned to this Linux server/AKS pod.
  ensure you have the azure-messaging-servicebus and azure-identity dependencies in your pom.xml.
      import com.azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredentialBuilder;
      import com.azure.messaging.servicebus.ServiceBusClientBuilder;
      import com.azure.messaging.servicebus.ServiceBusSenderClient;
      public class ServiceBusProvider {
          public void sendMessage(String messageContent) {
              // 1. Setup the Identity Credential
              var credential = new DefaultAzureCredentialBuilder().build();
              // 2. Use the Builder to connect via Managed Identity
              ServiceBusSenderClient sender = new ServiceBusClientBuilder()
                  .credential("your-namespace.servicebus.windows.net", credential) // No Connection String!
                  .sender()
                  .queueName("my-queue-name")
                  .buildClient();
              // 3. Send the message
              sender.sendMessage(new ServiceBusMessage(messageContent));
              // Clean up
              sender.close();
          }
      }

How the Communication Works:
    When you use the code above, the following "handshake" happens behind the scenes:
    Token Request: The DefaultAzureCredential asks the local environment (the Linux VM or AKS Node) for an OAuth2 token.
    Azure Validation: Azure checks if your Managed Identity has been granted permission (RBAC) to touch that Service Bus.
    AMQP Connection: Once validated, the ServiceBusClientBuilder opens a secure, persistent connection to the Service Bus namespace to transmit data.

Key Configuration Differences:
Feature            Using Connection String                 Using Managed Id
Builder Method      connectionString(String)                credential(String namespace, TokenCredential)
Security Risk       High (Key is in Ansible/Env Vars)        None (No keys stored anywhere)
Ease of Use         Simple for local testing                Best for Production (AKS/Linux)
Requirement         The Primary Key string                  RBAC Role (Data Sender/Receiver)

Troubleshooting the Identity:
    If your ServiceBusClientBuilder fails while using Managed Identity, it is almost always one of these two things:
    Environment: You are running the code on your local laptop without being logged in via az login.
    Permissions: You haven't assigned the "Azure Service Bus Data Sender" role to the Identity in the Azure Portal under Access Control (IAM).

AMQP (Advanced Message Queuing Protocol) is the "language" or the communication protocol that your Java application uses to talk to Azure Service Bus.
Think of it this way: 
        If Azure Service Bus is a Radio Station,
        and your Java App is the Radio, 
        then AMQP is the Radio Frequency/Signal that carries the music between them.
1. What is the AMQP Component?
    In modern cloud messaging, AMQP 1.0 is the industry standard.
    It is superior to older protocols (like HTTP) because:
    Persistent Connection: It keeps a "pipe" open between your Linux server and Azure, so you don't have to reconnect for every single message.
    Binary Efficiency: It packs data into a very small, fast format, which saves on bandwidth and CPU.
    Reliability: It includes "acknowledgments" (ACKs). The server tells the app, "I safely received your message," or "I failed, please try again."

2. How AMQP Integrates with ServiceBusClientBuilder
When you use ServiceBusClientBuilder in your Java code, you aren't just writing code; you are configuring an AMQP Client.
Here is how the integration works internally:
A. The Transport Type - By default, the builder uses AMQP over port 5671.
    However, if your company's firewall blocks that port, you can tell the builder to wrap AMQP inside a standard web port (443) using WebSockets.
        JavaServiceBusClientBuilder builder = new ServiceBusClientBuilder() .connectionString(connectionString)
        .transportType(ServiceBusTransportType.AMQP_WEB_SOCKETS); // Forces AMQP over Port 443
B. Connection Pooling - The ServiceBusClientBuilder creates a "Connection Object."
      Because AMQP is expensive to start but cheap to keep running, the builder manages a pool. 
      This means if you have 10 different parts of your Java app sending messages, they all share the same AMQP "pipe" to Azure.
C. Link Credits (Flow Control) - AMQP uses a concept called "Credits." 
    The Service Bus tells your ServiceBusClientBuilder: "I can handle 100 messages right now." The builder then sends exactly 100. 
    This prevents your Java app from "flooding" the Service Bus and causing a crash.

Code Layer -> ServiceBusClientBuilder -> The Java API you interact with.
Protocol Layer -> AMQP 1.0 -> The rules for framing, routing, and delivering the message.
Security Layer -> Managed Identity  -> The "Token" carried inside the AMQP header to prove identity.
Network Layer -> TCP (Port 5671)  -> The physical connection from your Linux server to Azure.

4. How to Verify AMQP is Working:
On your Linux server, if you suspect the AMQP connection is blocked, you can use the nc (Netcat) command to check the "pipe":
Standard AMQP: nc -vz <your-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net 5671
AMQP over WebSockets: nc -vz <your-namespace>.servicebus.windows.net 443
If these commands return "Connection refused" or "Timeout," your Ansible configuration or the Azure Network Security Group (NSG) is likely blocking the protocol, and your Java app will fail to start.

What are Azure Functions?
  Azure Functions are "Functions-as-a-Service" (FaaS). 
  You write a small block of code, and Azure handles all the infrastructure, scaling it to zero when not in use and scaling up instantly when an event occurs.
  Common use cases in your stack:
  Image/File Processing: When a file is uploaded to your Blob Storage, a Function triggers to resize it or scan it for viruses.
  Message Processing: When a message hits your Service Bus, a Function can pick it up, transform the data, and save it to a database.
  Scheduled Jobs: Instead of a complex CronJob in Kubernetes, a "Timer Trigger" Function can run a cleanup script every night at 2:00 AM.

How to Check if they are Used in Your Application:
If you are inheriting a project and aren't sure if Functions are involved, check these three areas:
A. Check the Azure Portal
    Search for Function App in the top search bar.
    If any resources appear, click on one.
    On the left menu, under Functions, click Functions. You will see a list of individual tasks (e.g., ProcessOrder, SendEmail).
    Verification: Click on a function and select Invocations. If the graph shows activity, that function is currently "live" and being used by your system.
B. Check Your Java Code 
    In a Java project, Azure Functions look different from standard Spring Boot controllers.Look for:
        Dependencies: Check your pom.xml for azure-functions-java-library.
        Annotations: Look for @FunctionName, @HttpTrigger, or @ServiceBusQueueTrigger.Example:Java@FunctionName("ServiceBusMonitor")
          public void run(
              @ServiceBusQueueTrigger(name = "msg", queueName = "orders", connection = "SB_CONN") 
              String message,
              final ExecutionContext context
          ) {
              context.getLogger().info("Function triggered by Service Bus message!");
          }
C. Check Your Ansible/Jenkins Pipeline 
    Since you use Ansible, look for tasks that use the azure_rm_function
    app module or shell commands like func azure functionapp publish.
    If these exist in your playbooks, your pipeline is deploying serverless code alongside your Kubernetes microservices.

Feature      AKS (Your current Cluster)             Azure Functions (Serverless)
Best For     Long-running, complex APIs             Short, "one-off" background tasks
Scaling      Manual or Horizontal Pod/Autoscaler    Automatic (Scales to zero $0)
Deployment   Docker Image + Kubernetes YAML          Code Package or Container
Management    High (You manage Nodes/Pods)          Zero (Azure manages everything)

1. Azure Key Vault (Secrets & Keys):
      Instead of putting passwords in your Ansible YAML or Git, you store them in Key Vault.
      What it is: A secure "safe" for secrets (passwords), keys (encryption), and certificates.
      How to Verify in Portal: * Go to Key Vaults > Select your Vault > Secrets.
      Tip: If the value looks cut off (common with long Mongo connection strings), use the Azure CLI to see the full value:
          az keyvault secret show --name <secret-name> --vault-name <vault-name> --query value -o tsv
      Check Permissions: Under Access configuration, ensure your app's Managed Identity has "Key Vault Secrets User" (RBAC) or "Get/List" (Access Policy).

2. Azure App Configuration - no access for me
      While Key Vault stores secrets, App Configuration stores settings (like feature flags or API URLs).
      What it is: A central place to manage non-sensitive settings across all microservices.
      How it connects: Often, a value in App Configuration is just a "Reference" to a secret in Key Vault.   
      How to Verify: Go to App Configuration > Configuration Explorer. Look for the "Key Vault Reference" icon.

3. Database Connections (SQL & Mongo)
    Your Java app needs to talk to a data store. In Azure, these are typically:
    Azure SQL (Relational)
        How to Verify:
            1. Go to SQL databases > Select your DB.
            2. Click Query editor (preview) on the left. Sign in with your credentials to see if the database is actually "alive" and queryable.
            3. Check Networking: Ensure "Allow Azure services and resources to access this server" is set to Yes, otherwise your AKS pods can't reach it.
    Azure Cosmos DB (Mongo API) - No account 
        How to Verify:
            Go to Azure Cosmos DB > Select your account.
            Click Data Explorer to browse your collections.
            Connection Check: Under Settings, click Connection String.
            Crucial: Cosmos DB for Mongo often requires retrywrites=false and SSL to be enabled in your Java connection string.

Integrating Java microservices with secrets and configurations in AKS involves a "handshake" between Azure's infrastructure and the Kubernetes environment.
When you add Ansible to the mix, it acts as the glue that pushes these values into the right places during deployment.
Here is the architecture for managing these properties:
1. Integrating Java with Key Vault (Secrets):
    The most secure way to handle secrets (like DB passwords or API keys) in AKS is to use the Azure Key Vault Provider for Secrets Store CSI Driver.
    The Workflow: 
          1.  Secrets are stored in Azure Key Vault.
          2.  The CSI Driver "mounts" these secrets as files inside your Java Pod or syncs them into Kubernetes Secrets.
          3.  Your Java app reads them as environment variables or properties.
    If you use the spring-cloud-azure-starter-keyvault-secrets dependency, Spring can pull secrets directly at startup using Managed Identity
    YAML
    # application.yml
    spring:
      cloud:
        azure:
          keyvault:
            secret:
              property-sources:
                - endpoint: https://your-vault-name.vault.azure.net/
2. Integrating Java with App Configuration (Non-Secrets):
    For non-sensitive settings (URLs, timeouts, feature flags), use Azure App Configuration.
    Java Side: Use the spring-cloud-azure-starter-appconfiguration library. 
               It allows you to refresh configurations in real-time without restarting your pods.
    AKS Side: You can use the Azure App Configuration Provider for Kubernetes to automatically sync these settings into Kubernetes ConfigMaps.
3. How Ansible Properties are used in Orchestration:
  In your stack, Ansible acts as the Pre-processor. It takes static variables and injects them into the Kubernetes manifests before they are applied to the cluster.
  A. The Ansible Template Strategy:
      Instead of hardcoding values in your deploy-from-project.yml, you use Jinja2 placeholders.
      Ansible Variable (vars/main.yml): db_name: "orders_db"
      Kubernetes Template (deployment.j2): 
            YAML
            env:
              - name: DATABASE_NAME
                value: "{{ db_name }}"
      The Orchestration: When you run the playbook, Ansible replaces {{ db_name }} with orders_db and then runs kubectl apply.
  B. Managing Secret References:
      Ansible should not hold the actual secret. 
      Instead, it should configure the SecretProviderClass in Kubernetes to point to the correct Key Vault.
      YAML
      - name: Create Secret Provider Class
        kubernetes.core.k8s:
          definition:
            apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
            kind: SecretProviderClass
            metadata:
              name: "{{ project_name }}-secrets"
            spec:
              parameters:
                keyvaultName: "{{ azure_kv_name }}"
                objects: |
                  array:
                    - |
                      objectName: db-password
                      objectType: secret
4. How Properties Flow into Java:
    The final integration happens inside the Java Container. 
    There are two main ways the properties from Azure/Ansible reach your code: 
    Environment Variables (Most Common): 
              Ansible sets the env block in the Deployment YAML. 
              Java reads these via @Value("${DATABASE_NAME}") or System.getenv("DATABASE_NAME").
    Mounted Volumes: 
              For complex configurations, Ansible can mount a ConfigMap as a file (e.g., /config/application.properties). 
              Spring Boot can be told to look for this file at startup:
              java -jar app.jar --spring.config.location=file:/config/application.properties

Source          Management Tool      Destination in AKS                Access in Java 
Secrets         Azure Key Vault      Kubernetes Secret / CSI Volume    @Value or Environment Var
App Settings    App Configuration    ConfigMaps                        Spring Cloud Azure Starter
Build Settings  Ansible YAML         Deployment Manifest               Injected at Deploy-time

Component	Port to Test (via nc or telnet)
SQL Database	-> yourserver.database.windows.net 1443
Cosmos (Mongo) -> 	youraccount.mongo.cosmos.azure.com 10255
Key Vault	 ->yourvault.vault.azure.net 443
Need to check :
Secrets	 -> Expiration Date	  -> Key Vault > Secrets
SQL	     -> Firewall Rules	    -> SQL Server > Networking
Mongo	    -> Throughput (RU/s)	 -> Cosmos DB > Metrics
App Config -> 	Environment Labels	 -> App Config > Configuration Explorer

In the Azure ecosystem, "Managed Identity" is a specific type of Workload Identity.
While Managed Identity is the favorite for Azure-native services (like your AKS cluster), 
you will encounter other identity types depending on whether your app is running inside Azure, in a different cloud (like AWS), or in your local Jenkins pipeline.

Here is the breakdown of the other identities you should know:
1. Service Principal (The Traditional "App Account"):
    A Service Principal is essentially a "User Account for an Application."
    Unlike Managed Identities, which Azure manages for you, you are responsible for a Service Principal.
    Authentication: Uses a Client Secret (password) or a Certificate.
    When to use: Use this for things outside of Azure. 
                 For example, your Jenkins server likely uses a Service Principal to push images to your ACR.
    Risk: If you check the Client Secret into Git, anyone can access your Azure resources. 
          This is why Managed Identity is preferred for apps inside Azure.

2. Workload Identity (The AKS Specialist):
    This is a specific "bridge" identity for Kubernetes.
    Since a Pod in AKS isn't a "real" Azure resource (it's a container), it needs a way to prove who it is.
    How it works: It links a Kubernetes Service Account to a User-Assigned Managed Identity using a "Federated Credential." 
    Why it's the best for you: It allows each microservice Pod to have its own unique identity, rather than sharing the "Node's" identity. 
    Verification: You'll see an annotation in your Kubernetes YAML: azure.workload.identity/client-id.

3. User Identity (Human Identity):
    This represents you—the developer. When you run az login on your local Linux machine, you are using a User Identity.
    Local Development: Your Java code's DefaultAzureCredential will automatically use your logged-in user identity if it can't find a Managed Identity. 
    This allows you to test the same code on your laptop that runs in the cloud.

Identity Type          Managed by    Uses Secrets?    Best For
System-Assigned MI    Azure          No                One-to-one mapping (e.g., one VM).
User-Assigned MI      You/Azure      No                Sharing one ID across many microservices.
Service Principal      You          Yes                Jenkins, GitHub Actions, or apps on-prem.
Workload Identity      K8s + Azure  No                Individual Pods in your AKS cluster.

How to Check These in the Azure Portal:
    For Managed Identities: Search for "Managed Identities" in the top bar. You will see your standalone User-Assigned IDs here.
    For Service Principals: Search for "App Registrations". This is the "Blueprint" for the identity.
                            Then look under "Enterprise Applications" to see the actual "Instance" that has the permissions.
    For Permissions: On any resource (like your Service Bus), go to Access Control (IAM) and look for the names of these identities.

1. The Foundation: VNet & Subnet
    A VNet (Virtual Network) is your private "Gated Community" in Azure. It isolates your resources from the rest of the internet.
    VNet: The entire boundary of your network (e.g., 10.0.0.0/16).
    Subnet: A smaller "Neighborhood" inside the VNet (e.g., 10.0.1.0/24).
    In AKS: 
        Your Nodes (the VMs) live in a specific subnet. 
        Depending on your configuration (Azure CNI), your Pods might also take IP addresses from this same subnet.
2. The Workforce: Node Pools
    A Node Pool is a group of identical virtual machines that run your Kubernetes workloads. 
    System Node Pool: The "Utility Workers." 
        This pool hosts critical system services (like DNS and metrics) that keep the cluster alive. 
        You usually don't put your own apps here.
    User Node Pool: The "Business District."
        This is where your Java microservices run. 
        You can have different pools for different needs (e.g., a GPU Pool for AI or a High-Memory Pool for heavy databases).

Term                          What it is                                    Why it matters
CIDR                          The IP address range format (e.g., /24).      Determines how many "addresses" (Nodes/Pods) you can fit in your subnet.
NSG(Network Security Group)   A "Security Guard" at the subnet gate.        It contains rules (Allow/Deny) that control which traffic can reach your nodes.
Private Endpoint              A "Secret Entrance."                          Lets your AKS cluster talk to services like SQL or Key Vault over a private IP, never touching the public internet.
Azure CNI vs Overlay          The "Plumbing" model.                         CNI: Every Pod gets a real VNet IP. Overlay: Pods get private internal IPs, saving VNet space.

Where is this used in your workflow?
  When you run your Ansible playbooks, you are often defining these very things:
  VNet/Subnet: Your Ansible code checks if the subnet exists before deploying the cluster.
  Node Pool Sizing: You specify in your YAML how many nodes (e.g., node_count: 3) should be in your userpool.
  NSG Rules: Ansible can automate opening Port 443 so your microservice is reachable.

1. The Infrastructure Layer (VNet & Subnet)
      This is the "ground" your cluster sits on.
      Where to find it: Search for Virtual Networks in the top search bar.
      How to check: 
          1. Select your VNet (e.g., my-vnet).
          2. Click Subnets on the left menu.
          3. Look for the subnet assigned to AKS. You can see the Available IP addresses here—if this number is low, your cluster won't be able to scale.
          4. Click Connected devices to see the actual Network Interfaces (NICs) of your cluster nodes.
2. The Compute Layer (Cluster, Node Pools & Nodes)
      This is the "hardware" managing your containers.
      Where to find it: Search for Kubernetes services.
      How to check Node Pools: 
          1. Select your AKS cluster.
          2. Under Settings, click Node pools.
          3. Here you see the "System" and "User" pools, their status, and the VM size (e.g., Standard_DS2_v2).
      How to check individual Nodes:
          Inside the cluster menu, look under Kubernetes resources and click Nodes.
          This shows you the health, CPU usage, and Memory pressure of each physical VM in the pool.
3. The Workload Layer (Deployments, Pods & Services)
      These are the "Logical" items inside Kubernetes. Historically, you had to use the command line (kubectl) for this, but the Azure Portal now has a built-in view.
      Where to find it: Inside your AKS Cluster page, look for the Kubernetes resources section on the left sidebar.

In a microservices architecture, the Load Balancer and API Gateway (Apigee) work together to handle two different types of traffic:
External (North-South) traffic coming from users, and Internal (East-West) traffic between your services.

Load Balancer (Layer 4): 
    Acts as the "Traffic Cop" at the network level.
    It distributes raw TCP/UDP traffic across your AKS nodes.
    In Azure, when you create a Kubernetes service of type: LoadBalancer, Azure automatically spins up a Standard Load Balancer in your resource group.
Apigee (Layer 7):
    Acts as the "Concierge."
    It sits in front of your microservices to handle API keys, rate limiting, security policies, and transformation. 
    It doesn't just route traffic; it manages the API.

How to Connect the Load Balancer in Java/AKS
To connect your Java microservice to a load balancer, you define a Kubernetes Service.
For Public Access:
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Service
        metadata:
          name: java-microservice-public
        spec:
          type: LoadBalancer # This triggers the Azure Public Load Balancer
          ports:
            - port: 80
              targetPort: 8080 # Your Java app port
          selector:
            app: java-app
For Internal Access (Private IP):
    If you want a private load balancer that only Apigee or other internal services can see, use an annotation: 
    metadata:
      name: java-microservice-internal
      annotations:
        service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-internal: "true"

Calling Between Services using Apigee and Load Balancer:
When Service A needs to call Service B, you have two main patterns:
Pattern A: Direct Service-to-Service (Performance)
      Service A calls Service B directly using the Kubernetes ClusterIP name (e.g., http://service-b).
      This bypasses the Load Balancer and Apigee entirely, which is faster and cheaper for internal communication.
Pattern B: Via Apigee (Governance & Security)
      If you need to enforce security policies (like OAuth or logging) even for internal calls,
      Service A calls the Apigee Proxy URL, which then routes the request back to Service B's Internal Load Balancer.

How to set this up in Apigee:
    Target Server: In Apigee, create a "Target Server" pointing to the Internal Load Balancer IP of Service B.
    API Proxy: Create a proxy in Apigee that uses this Target Server.
    The Call: Service A makes an HTTP request to https://api.yourcompany.com/service-b.

How to Verify the Connection
    Check the Load Balancer IP: Run kubectl get svc. Look at the EXTERNAL-IP column. For an internal LB, this will be a private IP (e.g., 10.0.x.x).
    Check Apigee Targets: In the Apigee UI, go to Develop > Target Endpoints. Ensure the URL matches your Load Balancer's IP or DNS name.
    Test the Path: From inside a pod in Service A, try to "curl" the Apigee endpoint:
    curl -v https://api.yourcompany.com/service-b/health
    If you get a 200 OK, the chain (Service A -> Apigee -> Load Balancer -> Service B) is successful.

Feature            Direct (ClusterIP)              Via Apigee + Load Balancer
LatencyExtremely   Low                             Moderate (due to Gateway hop)
Security           Minimal (Basic Network Policy)  High (OAuth, Threat Protection)
Observability      Kubernetes Logs                 Full API Analytics & Trace

Because you are using AKS, the "real" networking hardware lives in that special hidden Resource Group (the one starting with MC_).
Step A: Find the Load Balancer Resource
      In the Azure Portal, search for Resource groups.
      Look for the one named MC_[YourResourceGroup]_[YourClusterName]_[Location]. 
      Inside this group, look for a resource of type Load balancer (usually named kubernetes).
Step B: Verify the IP Address (Frontend IP)
      Click on that Load Balancer resource.
      On the left menu, click Frontend IP configuration.  
      What to look for:
            You will see the IP address here. 
            If it's a Private IP (e.g., 10.x.x.x), it is an Internal Load Balancer. 
            If it's a Public IP, it's reachable from the internet.
Step C: Verify the "Health" of your Java App (Backend Pools)
      Click on Backend pools in the same menu.
      Click on the pool (usually named kubernetes).
      What to look for:
            You should see a list of your AKS Nodes. 
            If the "Health State" is not 100%, it means your Java app is crashing or the "Health Probe" is failing, and the Load Balancer is refusing to send traffic there.
Step D: Verify the Port Mapping (Load Balancing Rules)
      Click on Load balancing rules.
      What to look for:
            You will see a rule mapping the "Frontend Port" (usually 80 or 443) to the "Backend Port." 
            This confirms that traffic hitting the IP is actually being told where to go.

1. Azure Resource Group (The "Cloud" Container)
    A Resource Group (RG) is a logical container for Azure resources. In your workflow, this is handled via Azure CLI or Ansible.
    What it handles: Physical or virtual Azure assets like the AKS Cluster itself, Virtual Networks (VNet), Managed Identities, Key Vaults, and Storage Accounts.
    Usage: 
          Billing: You can see exactly how much your "Dev" environment costs versus "Production" by looking at the RG. 
          Lifecycle: If you delete the Resource Group, everything inside it (the cluster, the disks, the IPs) is deleted instantly. 
          Access (RBAC): You can give a developer permission to manage one Resource Group without letting them touch the rest of the subscription.
2. Kubernetes Namespace (The "Cluster" Partition)
    A Namespace is a virtual cluster inside your physical AKS cluster. This is handled via kubectl or your Ansible k8s module.
    What it handles: Kubernetes-specific objects like Pods, Services, Deployments, ConfigMaps, and Secrets.
    Usage: 
        Isolation: You can run the same microservice in a dev namespace and a test namespace on the same cluster without them crashing into each other.
        Resource Quotas: You can limit a namespace so it only uses, for example, 4GB of RAM, preventing one buggy microservice from crashing the whole cluster.
        Security: Using "Network Policies," you can block traffic between namespaces (e.g., the frontend namespace cannot talk directly to the db namespace).

How to check them in your environment
To check Resource Groups:
    Go to the Azure Portal and search for "Resource groups." 
    You will likely see your main group and that "hidden" MC_ group I mentioned earlier which handles the networking.
To check Namespaces:
    Via Portal: Go to your AKS Cluster > Kubernetes resources > Namespaces.
    Via Terminal: Run kubectl get ns.
    You will see defaults like default, kube-system, and likely your own (e.g., tif-dev).
